Earlier we discussed that blockchain is a type of database;
a database where there's no way to edit or delete information,
but we can read,
append and validate data.
This begs the question,
aside from transactional data,
can we add other types of data onto the blockchain?
If so, how is it done?
Let's take a look at the Bitcoin blockchain as an example.
Even though it is possible to store data on the Bitcoin blockchain,
the Bitcoin protocol was not designed for the purpose of data storage.
However, as the blockchain expands beyond finance,
many companies and individuals started embedding data
with transactions in order to store non-financial data.
Doing this, as you may have guessed,
comes with risks and issues.
A number of other newer blockchain protocols have risen in order to fill this need.
Each hyper blockchain has its pros and cons as a data storage method including Bitcoin.
In this section, we'll discuss the best practices and
limitations of embedding data on the Bitcoin public blockchain.
Understanding the risks here will help us be more aware of the pros and
cons when analyzing how other blockchains handle data storage.